{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset77 Times-Bold;\f2\froman\fcharset77 Times-Roman;
\f3\froman\fcharset77 Times-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh9000\viewkind0
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 About QuickTime Streaming Server 5.5\
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 Contents\
\pard\ql\qnatural


\f2\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
What's New with QuickTime Streaming Server 5.5\
System Requirements\
Installing \
Set Up\
More Information\
\
\pard\ql\qnatural

What's New with QuickTime Streaming Server 5.5\\pard\ql\qnatural\- Latest security update changes\- Latest 3GPP release 5 client support\- High definition H.264 streaming \\

\pard\ql\qnatural

\f1\b\fs24 \cf0 System Requirements\
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f2\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
QuickTime Streaming Server software runs on the following software and hardware systems:\
\
\'a5 System Software: Mac OS X Server, version 10.3 or later 
\
\
\'a5 Hardware: Macintosh Server G4, Power Mac G4, Power Mac G4 Cube, Xserve, iMac, eMac, Macintosh Server G3, Power Macintosh G3 with at least 128 MB of RAM and a 4GB hard disk (operating system fault tolerance requires a Macintosh Server G4 or a Power Mac G4 released in January 2001 or later). \
\
For high-demand servers running QuickTime Streaming Server, at least 512MB RAM is recommended. \
\
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f1\b\fs24 \cf0 Installing\
\
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f2\b0\fs28 \cf0 To install QuickTime Streaming Server 5.5 software, follow these \
steps:\
\
\pard\li90\fi-90\ql\qnatural
\cf0 1. After downloading QuickTime Streaming Server 5.5, double-click the QuickTimeStreamingServer_5.5.dmg file. QuickTimeStreamingServer 5.5 will mount a desktop image that contains QuickTimeStreamingServer.pkg.  \
\pard\li360\fi-360\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
2. Double-click the QuickTimeStreamingServer.pkg file. This will launch the installer.\
\
3. Click on the "lock" icon to make changes when prompted during installation. You will need to authenticate with the administrator username and password.\
\
4. Follow the onscreen instructions. After you have read and agreed to the license, you can proceed with the installation.\
\pard\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\li360\fi-360\ql\qnatural

\f1\b\fs24 \cf0 Set Up \
\pard\li360\fi-360\ql\qnatural

\f2\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\ql\qnatural
\cf0 To administer the QuickTime Broadcaster from etiher the server machine or a remote client machine, follow these steps: \
\
1. From Mac OS X Server, click on the QuickTime Streaming Server icon in the Dock and proceed to Step 3.\
\pard\li360\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\ql\qnatural
\cf0 OR\
\pard\li360\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\ql\qnatural
\cf0 From a server machine with QuickTime Streaming Server installed, launch your web browser.\
\pard\li360\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\ql\qnatural
\cf0 OR \
\pard\fi360\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\ql\qnatural
\cf0 From a remote machine launch Microsoft Internet Explorer, versions 5.5 or later, Netscape Navigator or Netscape Communicator version 4.x and later and Mozilla 1.0 or later.\
\pard\li270\fi-270\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
2. Enter the URL for your QuickTime Streaming Server:\
\pard\li270\ql\qnatural
\cf0 http://myserver.com:1220\
Replace "myserver.com" with the name of your QuickTime Streaming Server computer.  1220 is the port number.\
\pard\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
3. The first time you run QuickTime Streaming Server admin, the Setup Assistant will prompt for your username and password.
\fs24 \

\fs28 \
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f1\b\fs24 \cf0 More Information\
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f2\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
For Help on administering the QuickTime Streaming Server, select the question mark on any QuickTime Streaming Server admin page. \
\
Check the QuickTime Streaming Server Web site for tips, solutions to problems, or any update that may become available after the release of the software.\
\
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f3\i \cf0     
\f2\i0  www.apple.com/quicktime/products/qtss\
\
\
\'a9 2002 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Mac, Macintosh, PowerBook, Power Macintosh, and QuickTime are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc., registered in the United States and other countries.  eMac, iBook,  iMac, Power Mac and Xserve are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. All other product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective holders.\
}