.Dd February 11, 2005       \" DATE 
.Dt qtpasswd 1       \" Program name and manual section number 
.Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify 
.Nm qtpasswd 
.Nd MP3 file playlist broadcaster
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl ?hvFd              \" [-Fxd?v]
.Op Fl f Ar filename         \" [-f filename] 
.Op Fl g Ar groupsfilename         \" [-g groupsfilename] 
.Op Fl r Ar realm         \" [-r realm]
.Op Fl p Ar password         \" [-p password]
.Op Fl P Ar passwordfile         \" [-P passwordfile]
.Op Fl A Ar group         \" [-A group]
.Op Fl D Ar group         \" [-D group]
.Op Fl C Ar group         \" [-C group]
.Op Fl R Ar group         \" [-R group]
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
streams a playlist of MP3 files to an instance of QuickTimeStreamingServer.
.Pp
A list of flags and their descriptions:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in -compact tag removed 
.It Fl ?
display usage
.It Fl h
display usage
.It Fl v
display usage
.It Fl F
Don't ask for confirmation when deleting users or overwriting existing files.
.It Fl d                 
Delete the user. (Deletes the user from all groups)
.It Fl f Ar filename
Password file to manipulate (Default is "/Library/QuickTimeStreaming/Config/qtusers").
.It Fl g Ar groupsfilename
Groups file to manipulate (Default is "/Library/QuickTimeStreaming/Config/qtgroups"). If not found, will create one when necessary.
.It Fl r Ar realm
The realm name to use when creating a new file via "-c" (Default is "Streaming Server").
.It Fl p Ar password
Allows entry of password at command line rather than prompting for it.
.It Fl P Ar passwordfile
File to read the password from rather than prompting for it.
.It Fl A Ar group
Add user to group. Will create group automatically if group is not already present.
.It Fl D Ar group
Delete the user from the group.
.It Fl C Ar group
Create new group. Do not specify username with this option.
.It Fl R Ar group
Delete the group. Do not specify username with this option.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width /Library/QuickTimeStreaming/Config/qtusers -compact
.It Pa /Library/QuickTimeStreaming/Config/qtusers
.It Pa /Library/QuickTimeStreaming/Config/qtgroups
.It Pa /Library/QuickTimeStreaming/Config/qtaccess
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr QuickTimeStreamingServer 8 , 
.\" .Sh BUGS 
.\" .Sh HISTORY 