{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf100
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset77 Times-Bold;\f1\froman\fcharset77 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1318\margr1318\vieww14420\viewh16040\viewkind0
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Acknowledgments\
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0\fs20 \cf0 \
\pard\ql\qnatural

\fs24 \cf0 Portions of this Apple Software may utilize the following copyrighted material, the use of which is hereby acknowledged.\
\
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 Apache Group
\f1\b0  ( Apache)
\f0\b \
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 Copyright (c) 1995-2000 The Apache Software Foundation.  All rights reserved.\
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.  3. The end-user documentation included with the redistribution, if any, must include the following acknowledgment:  "This product includes software developed by the Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/)."  Alternately, this acknowledgment may appear in the software itself, if and wherever such third-party acknowledgments normally appear.  4. The names "Apache" and "Apache Software Foundation" must not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without prior written permission. For written permission, please contact apache@apache.org.  5. Products derived from this software may not be called "Apache", nor may "Apache" appear in their name, without prior written permission of the Apache Software Foundation.\
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE APACHE SOFTWARE FOUNDATION OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF, SUCH DAMAGE.\
This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many individuals on behalf of the Apache Software Foundation.  For more information on the Apache Software Foundation, please see <http://www.apache.org/>.  Portions of this software are based upon public domain software originally written at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications, University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.\
\
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 Jamie Cameron ( perl-based web server )\
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 Copyright (c) Jamie Cameron.  All rights reserved.\
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. 3. Neither the name of the developer nor the names of contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE DEVELOPER ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE DEVELOPER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\
\
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 Sampo Kellomaki (Perl Net SSLeay module)\
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 Copyright (c) 1996 -2001 Sampo Kellomaki .   All rights reserved.\
Distribution and use of this module is under the same terms as the OpenSSL package itself (i.e. free, but mandatory attribution; NO WARRANTY). Please consult -1COPYRIGHT file in the root of the SSLeay distribution.  While the source distribution of this perl module does not contain Eric's or OpenSSL's code, if you use this module you will use OpenSSL library. Please give Eric and OpenSSL team credit (as required by their licenses).\
\
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 Tomoyuki SADAHIRO (Perl MapUTF module)\
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 Copyright(C) 2001, SADAHIRO Tomoyuki. Japan. All rights reserved. This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.\
\
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 RSA Data Security, Inc. ( MD5)\
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0 \cf0 MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm (c) 1991-1992 RSA Data Security, Inc.\
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f0\b \cf0 \
\pard\ql\qnatural

\f1\b0\fs18 \cf0 QTSS  101601\
}